[Security Solution Gen AI]Docs for prompts and anonymization fields (#5704)
elastic/security-docs: docs/AI-for-security/api/bulk-actions-prompts-api.asciidoc

[[bulk-actions-prompts-api]]
=== Bulk prompts actions

Applies a bulk action to multiple prompts. The bulk action is applied to all prompts that match the filter or to the list of prompts by their IDs.

[discrete]
===== Request URL

`POST  <kibana host>:<port>/api/security_ai_assistant/prompts/_bulk_action`

[discrete]
===== Request body

A JSON object with the following properties:

[width="100%",options="header"]
|==============================================
|Name |Type |Description |Required
| `create` | <<bulk-create-object-schema, BulkCreateAction[]>> |  Array of prompts objects to create. | No
| `delete` | String[] |  Array of prompts IDs to which a bulk action will be applied. | No

> | `update` | <<bulk-update-object-schema, BulkUpdateAction[]>> |  Array of prompts objects with the fields to update. | No

Author: Yes, user can send the empty request body. Nothing will happen, they will get 200 OK, and 0 changes in the updated, deleted, created response props. Total changes will be 0.

{
   "create":[
      {
         "name":"test",
         "id":"test",
         "content":"some test content",
         "color":"#D36086",
         "categories":[],
         "promptType":"quick",
         "consumer":"securitySolutionUI"
      }
   ]
}
--------------------------------------------------

[discrete]
===== Response code

`200`::
    Indicates a successful call.

[discrete]
===== Response payload

JSON object containing the action's outcome:

- `attributes.summary.total`: Total number of prompts matching the bulk action
- `attributes.summary.succeeded`: Number of successful outcomes (number of prompts that were created, deleted, or updated)
- `attributes.summary.failed`: Number of failed outcomes
- `attributes.summary.skipped`: Number of prompts that were skipped due to various reasons (explained below)
- `attributes.results.created`: Prompt objects that were created during the action's execution
- `attributes.results.updated`: Prompt objects that were updated during the action's execution
- `attributes.results.deleted`: Prompt objects that were deleted during the action's execution
- `attributes.results.skipped`: Prompt that were skipped during the action's execution

> A prompt can only be `skipped` when the bulk action to be performed on it results in nothing being done. For example, if the `update` action is used to add a field to a prompt that already has that value. Objects returned in `attributes.results.skipped` only include a prompt's `id`, `name`, and `skip_reason`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A prompt can only be `skipped` when the bulk action to be performed on it results in nothing being done. For example, if the `update` action is used to update a field that already has the specified value. Objects returned in `attributes.results.skipped` only include a prompt's `id`, `name`, and `skip_reason`.
```

[[bulk-actions-prompts-api]]
=== Bulk prompts actions

Applies a bulk action to multiple prompts. The bulk action is applied to all prompts that match the filter or to the list of prompts by their IDs.

[discrete]
===== Request URL

`POST  <kibana host>:<port>/api/security_ai_assistant/prompts/_bulk_action`

[discrete]
===== Request body

A JSON object with the following properties:

[width="100%",options="header"]
|==============================================
|Name |Type |Description |Required
| `create` | <<bulk-create-object-schema, BulkCreateAction[]>> |  Array of prompts objects to create. | No
| `delete` | String[] |  Array of prompts IDs to which a bulk action will be applied. | No
| `update` | <<bulk-update-object-schema, BulkUpdateAction[]>> |  Array of prompts objects with the fields to update. | No

|==============================================

[[bulk-create-object-schema]]
[discrete]
==== BulkCreateAction object

[width="100%",options="header"]
|==============================================
|Name |Type |Description |Required

> |`name` |String |Prompt short title. |Yes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`name` |String |Short prompt title. |Yes
```

|`id` |String |Prompt ID. |Yes

> |`promptType` |String |Prompt type. Could be 'system' or 'quick' |Yes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`promptType` |String |Prompt type.  Valid values are:

* `system`
* `quick`
|Yes
```

> |`consumer` |String |Solution application to which prompt belongs. |Yes

Reviewer 2: Can we add some example values here?

> |`content` |String |Prompt text whixh will be send to LLM. |Yes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`content` |String |Prompt text to send to LLM. |Yes
```

> |`color` |String |Is only for quick prompts to highligh in the Assistant UI. |No

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`color` |Sets the display color for quick prompts in the UI. |No
```
What are the valid colors?

|`categories` |String[] |Array of prompts categories. |No
|==============================================

[discrete]
[[bulk-update-object-schema]]

> ===== `BulkUpdateAction` schema

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== BulkUpdateAction object
```
Making this the same as the header for BulkCreateAction object. They seem to be comparable objects so figured they should have similar headers. Feel free to ignore if that's inaccurate.

[width="100%",options="header"]
|==============================================
|Name |Type |Description |Required

|`id` |String |Prompt ID. |Yes

> |`content` |String |Prompt text whixh will be send to LLM. |No

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`content` |String |Prompt text to send to LLM. |No
```

> |`color` |String |Is only for quick prompts to highligh in the Assistant UI. |No

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`color` |String |Sets the display color for quick prompts in the UI. |No
```

|`categories` |String[] |Array of prompts categories. |No
|==============================================

[discrete]
===== Example requests

*Example 1*

> The following request create prompt:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following request creates a new quick prompt:
```

{
   "create":[
      {
         "name":"test",
         "id":"test",
         "content":"some test content",
         "color":"#D36086",
         "categories":[],
         "promptType":"quick",
         "consumer":"securitySolutionUI"
      }
   ]
}
--------------------------------------------------

[discrete]
===== Response code

`200`::
    Indicates a successful call.

[discrete]
===== Response payload

JSON object containing the action's outcome:

- `attributes.summary.total`: Total number of prompts matching the bulk action
- `attributes.summary.succeeded`: Number of successful outcomes (number of prompts that were created, deleted, or updated)
- `attributes.summary.failed`: Number of failed outcomes
- `attributes.summary.skipped`: Number of prompts that were skipped due to various reasons (explained below)
- `attributes.results.created`: Prompt objects that were created during the action's execution
- `attributes.results.updated`: Prompt objects that were updated during the action's execution
- `attributes.results.deleted`: Prompt objects that were deleted during the action's execution
- `attributes.results.skipped`: Prompt that were skipped during the action's execution

> A prompt can only be `skipped` when the bulk action to be performed on it results in nothing being done. For example, if the `update` action is used to add a filed to a prompt that already has that value. Objects returned in `attributes.results.skipped` will only include prompts' `id`, `name`, and `skip_reason`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A prompt can only be `skipped` when the bulk action to be performed on it results in nothing being done. For example, if the `update` action is used to add a field to a prompt that already has that value. Objects returned in `attributes.results.skipped` only include a prompt's `id`, `name`, and `skip_reason`.
```

[source,json]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "success": true,
    "prompts_count": 1,
    "attributes": {
        "results": {
            "updated": [],
            "created": [
                {
                    "timestamp": "2024-08-13T20:24:08.610Z",
                    "users": [
                        {
                            "id": "testuser",
                            "name": "elastic"
                        }
                    ],
                    "content": "dasdas",
                    "updatedAt": "2024-08-13T20:24:08.610Z",
                    "id": "0B1pTZEBYaDeA-NhjHej",
                    "name": "test",
                    "promptType": "quick",
                    "color": "#D36086",
                    "categories": [],
                    "consumer": "securitySolutionUI"
                }
            ],
            "deleted": [],
            "skipped": []
        },
        "summary": {
            "failed": 0,
            "succeeded": 1,
            "skipped": 0,
            "total": 1
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

> *Example 2, Partial failure*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Example 2: Partial failure*
```

> The following request adds tags `tag-1` and `tag-2` to the rules that have the IDs sent in the payload:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following request adds tags `tag-1` and `tag-2` to the rules associated with the IDs sent in the payload:
```

Reviewer 2: The request doesn't look like it has `tag-1` or `tag-2` in it. I could be missing something but how would it add those tags without mentioning them? And I thought this page was about prompts, not rules?
